MOSML(1)                    General Commands Manual                   MOSML(1)



NAME
       mosml - Standard ML interpreter

SYNOPSIS
       mosml [OPTION]... [FILE]...

DESCRIPTION
       Invokes the interactive Moscow ML system. The interactive system allows
       you to enter declarations and evaluate expressions.

       You can quit the interactive session by typing quit(); or control-D.
       Type help "lib"; for an overview of built-in function libraries, and
       e.g. help "Array"; for help on Array operations.

       Invoking the interactive system with a list of files FILEs correspond
       to invoking it without the file list, and when the Moscow ML has
       started entering use "file1"; ... use "filen";.

       This manual page documents the options accepted by mosml.  For more
       information consult the online manuals.

OPTIONS
       -conservative
              Sets conservative mode for compilation of subsequent units:
              accept all extensions to the SML Modules language, but issue a
              warning for each use. This is the default.

       -I directory
              Specifies directories to be searched for interface files,
              bytecode files, and source files.  A call to use, load or
              loadOne will first search the current directory, then all
              directories specified by option -I in order of appearance from
              left to right, and finally the standard library directory.
              (This option affects the variable Meta.loadPath.)

       -imptypes
              Specifies that the type checker should distinguish between
              imperative and applicative type variables, generalize all
              applicative type variables, and generalize imperative type
              variables only in non-expansive expressions.

       -liberal
              Sets liberal mode for compilation of subsequent units: accept
              without warnings all extensions to the SML Modules language.

       -orthodox
              Sets orthodox mode for the compilation of subsequent units:
              reject all uses of the extensions to the SML Modules language.
              That is, accept only SML Modules syntax.

       -P unit-set
              Determines which library units will be included and open at
              compile-time.  Any library unit in the load path can be used by
              the compile function for type checking purposes.  Thus
              regardless -P option, the compile function knows the type of
              library functions such as Array.foldl.

              -P default
                     The initial environment for the SML Basis Library:
                     modules Array, Char, List, String, and Vector will be
                     loaded, and Char, List, and String will be partially
                     opened.

              -P sml90
                     This provides an initial environment which is upwards
                     compatible with that of the 1990 `Definition of Standard
                     ML' and with pre-1.30 releases of Moscow ML. In
                     particular, the functions chr, explode, implode, and oorrdd
                     work on strings, not characters.  The new versions of
                     these functions are still available as Char.chr,
                     Char.ord, String.explode, and String.implode.  The math
                     functions and input-output facilities required by the
                     1990 Definition are available at top-level.  In addition
                     the same libraries are loaded as with -P default.

              -P nj93
                     This provides a top-level environment which is mostly
                     compatible with that of SML/NJ 0.93.  The functions app,
                     ceiling, chr, dec, explode, fold, hd, implode, inc, max,
                     min, nth, nthtail, ord, ordof, revapp, revfold,
                     substring, tl, and truncate have the same type and
                     meaning as in SML/NJ 0.93.  Note that this is
                     incompatible with SML/NJ version 110. The math functions
                     and input-output facilities required by the 1990
                     `Definition of Standard ML' are available at top-level.
                     In addition the same (new) libraries are loaded as with
                     -P default.  This option does not imply -imptypes.

              -P full
                     This loads all the libraries marked F in the library list
                     (see the online manuals), and partially opens the Char,
                     List, and String units.

              -P none
                     No library units are loaded or opened initially.

              Additional library units can loaded into the interactive system
              by using the load function.

       -quietdec
              Turns off the interactive system's prompt and responses, except
              for warnings and error messages.  Useful for writing scripts in
              SML.  Sets Meta.quietdec to true.

       -stdlib stdlib-directory
              Specify the standard library directory to be stdlib-directory.
              The default standard library is /usr/lib/mosml under Debian.

       -valuepoly
              Specifies that the type checker should use `value polymorphism'.
              Default.

AUTHOR
       Compiled by Henning Niss from the various Moscow ML documents written
       by Sergei Romanenko, Claudio Russo, and Peter Sestoft.

SEE ALSO
       mosmlc(1), mosmlyac(1), mosmllex(1)

       The full documentation for mosml and the other Moscow ML tools can be
       found in the online manuals in /usr/share/doc/mosml/manual.pdf.gz
       (`Moscow ML Owner's Manual') and /usr/share/doc/mosml/mosmllib.pdf.gz
       (`Moscow ML Library Documentation').



Version 2.0                    18 September 2001                      MOSML(1)
